Welcome back.
In the last video we took a look at some HP basics such as echo were in text to the browser comments
and also how to mix P HP and hate email.
In this video we're going to move on to take a look at strings variables and constants.
So I'm going to delete the code between the PDB tags from the last section.
So first of all going to take a look at strings.
So a string is a sequence of characters such as a single letter a word or a sentence.
A string is what we used in the last video where we don't a Echo.
So I printed a string between quotations.
So this is a string.
And forget the semicolon at the end.
So the string was be surrounded with either a single or a double quotation.
Both work perfectly fine so echo an end time a single quote.
So this is also a string.
So let's take a look at that in a browser by refreshing.
So this is a string and this is also a string.
So most of the time it does my if we use single or double quotes.
The only time it really matters is if you want to surround one of these words with the quotation marks.
So for example if you wanted the word string.
Have the quotations printed on the screen.
We need to make sure that the quotations we use around the word are opposite to what is surround in
this sentence sulpher say that.
And then refresh the word string has the double quotes.
If you were to do this and all had the same style of quotes.
So say the.
The text editor has picked up a issue so it's making a different colour.
So if I were to refresh would see the local host page isn't working because we got a error.
But if we change it to be single quotes.
And then the Serrano morons bucketed a ball.
Then refresh that's how can add single and double quotes within a string.
Okay so there's lots of ways you can work with strings by using string functions.
So for example if I wanted to reverse the string just to the example there.
So if I wanted to reverse the string we could use the string verse function.
So which is s t r r e e v i know i need to surround the string inside brackets.
And then save that and then just check out the browser and see what happens.
So that reverses all the characters inside the string so it's now back to front.
You can also do other things such as make all the words uppercase or lowercase so to make them all uppercase
we can use g string to up a function so S.T. are two upper and and save that and then refresh and now
all the characters inside the string are uppercase.
We can do the same with it's string to lower.
So S.T. are to lower.
Save and refresh.
And now there's no capitals at all in the string.
And of course has many more different string functions which you can find with a quick Google.
So we search for the HP string functions.
And then we're instantly taken to a list.
And as I've a page B dot net or W free schools which has lots of examples.
And as you can see there's quite a list.
So there's lots of different things we can do with strings such as split the string into an array which
can randomly shuffle all the characters in a string will can check out the length of the string which
returns the number of characters.
So we have a play around with these.
So we may not have a need for these two functions which have to show new and I'm sure if you work with
BHB Reguly you'll come across many of these different functions.
So next.
Going to move on to variables.
And like many other programming languages.
HP uses variables as containers for storing information.
Our new information inside these variables can change.
So I going to delete this string.
And the way we declare a variable is by first using a dollar sign and then assigning a variable name.
So for example number one.
And then set the value to be equal to a string a number a purely on or various other things.
So I said the number one to be equal to 10.
You know this woman deals with numbers we don't need to put the quotations each side of it.
So what we've done is create a variable with the name of number one.
And we've assigned the value of 10 to this number and then can do the same.
We can create a second variable so it is down when I call it number two.
And this time I'll set the value to be 20.
And now you can use the Echo that will looked up before.
So instead of echo in a string will can echo the variable name so no one so she printed to the browser.
The value of 10.
So refresh.
And there's our number 10.
We can also add variables together so can equal the value of number 1 plus the value of number 2.
So now go 30 in the browser.
And we can also combine strings with variables.
So if we have a variable.
So the number of posts.
So I said that to be 7.
I never have a variable name so the variable called name assigned to a string.
And when I call like Chris.
So if the user called Chris harz Create 7 posts which can then print is the browser so.
Echo.
Because its string we need to put this in quotations.
So if wanted to print.
Chris has seven posts.
We could start with the variable name.
So place I never saw that would be Chris and then harz.
And then reward the value of posts.
So put that into the.
So currently It says Chris has seven and N posts.
And then I will mention before we can put a huge demand SAG inside there which can add a great aag into
there.
So let's say that and hopefully we should get the value of Chris harz seven posts which you do scutwork
and fine.
So he mentioned diet values of the variable can be changed.
So if we go back to our number example so number one equal to 10.
And then echo number one.
So will she get the value of 10 printed to the browser.
Bought further on down a program.
If you wanted to change the value of number one book and re assign a value so no one will can change
that to be 20.
And there were an echo number one we should get the value of 20 printed to the browser.
Which we do.
And this is because the program is red line by line.
So when it gets the line 11 no one is set to the value of 10 and then moves down to the next line and
then realizes that number one is now set to 20.
So when we echo.
Number one we have the value of 20.
OK so the last thing I want to look at in this video is Constance constans dislike like variables can
store some information or store a value.
However unlike variables the value can't change once it's been set.
So this is how you set a constant impact p.
So first of all we use the defined function or the defined key word to declare a constant and then we
open up the curly buckets and then when it's pass in two parameters.
So the first parameter in between the quotations and in cupples is the name of the constant.
So for example if I wanted store value of your own name we could call it name and end separate by a
comma.
We add the value of the constant.
So this would be my name and then a semicolon at the end.
So we've defined a constant with the name of name and then we've undid the value of crista this constant
Arma can print this to the browser in the same way as before.
So all we need to do is echo the name.
And then when you get the value of Chris inside the browser.
OK so here goes.
That's how we use strings variables and constants impact B.